# Reading Summary 2019-05-09

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Malacology: A Programmable Storage System

#### Problem Statement

The authors are trying to address the difficulty of adapting existing storage systems
to both: special-purpose data processing applications and rapidly evolving storage
devices.

#### Related Work

There are not many other projects attempting to solve the same problem. There are
some high-level similarities with software defined storage and software defined
networks, but only in the sense that new abstractions are a way of developing
new policies on top of existing mechanisms. Separation of policies and mechanisms
to achieve this type of flexibility is an important aspect of operating systems
and other systems-level areas of work.

Although not mentioned in the paper, there are many implementations, or mechanisms,
that enable programmable storage approaches. Namely, mechanisms such as the virtual
object layer in the HDF5 file format. While we can't speak to the intent of developers
that have worked on these mechanisms, the concept of exploring these types of
mechanisms for extensive re-use and research in composability seems to be precise
enough that it is not being specifically pursued any other group.

#### Proposed Solution

The authors claim their approach is, "to expose more of the commonly used,
code-hardened subsystems of the underlying storage system as interfaces."
This approach is distinct from other approaches because it attempts to explore
the reusability of subsystems which are well-vetted. This can be a better
approach for complex use cases where it can be hard to write performant, correct
low-level code. But this approach requires a certain amount of creativity
in how existing subsystems or mechanisms can be composed to provide specific
functionality. It can be quite difficult for developers to create, and especially
maintain, new interfaces from existing code.

Evaluation of CORFU compared to zlog (implementation of CORFU in malacology) is
not provided by the malacology paper, but can somewhat be understood by looking
at the performance provided in the 2 papers. Note, however, that while CORFU specifies
the environment for their evaluation (32 networked Intel X25V drives, 2 racks of 8
servers with 2 drives each and 11 clients), the malacology paper does not seem to.

For 11 clients and 8 2-drive servers, CORFU is able to achieve a peak read throughput
of ~375k operations per second and a peak write throughput of ~150k operations per
second. For 2 clients and many OSDs (usually 1 OSD per disk, and a later experiment
has 120 OSDs, though the throughput experiment does not specify the number of OSDs),
zlog has a peak throughput of 1.2 million operations per second, if clients are allowed
a quota of 1000000 operations before relinquishing an exclusive lease on the sequencer.
WIth a quota of 1 operation on the exclusive lease, zlog has a peak throughput of ~100k
operations per second. The biggest difficulty in comparing these evaluations is that it
is not known what the maximum throughput is for zlog with a higher client load, nor is
it known how many disks are being used.

#### Contribution

This work is important because it seems to be the first to research in the specific area
of programmable storage. Specifically, it uses composability of system mechanisms to address
increasing momentum at the application layer and hardware layer in a way that maintains
a significant amount of reliability, yet provides various, powerful interfaces and abstractions.

#### Comments and Questions

1. 

2. 
   
3. 

<!-- resources -->
