# Reading Summary 2019-04-30

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## CORFU - A Shared Log Design for Flash Clusters

#### Problem Statement

The authors are trying to design a distributed, shared log that can be used by
any distributed application that requires strong consistency.

#### Related Work

The authors mention that they heavily borrow architecture from FAWN and design of CORFU
was primarily to address issues with Hyder. In these ways, it seems like CORFU is primarily
an implementation of Hyder with a de-coupling of obtaining log positions and writing data
to the log, using a very lightweight "hole-filling" approach, and the use of projections
to map log positions to flash devices (likely inspired by virtual memory). Then, all of this
design was done on top of a FAWN-like architecture in order to provide a log service to
applications in a data center.


#### Proposed Solution

The authors propose CORFU which organizes a cluster of flash devices into a shared
log. CORFU is designed for network-attached flash devices and so it leverages the
performance characteristics of flash, it tries to distribute wear-levelling, and it
is able to be more cost efficient by providing log functions without storage servers
(because it works over network-attached devices).

Correctness is ensured by a 2-step reconfiguration protocol: (1) seal current projection,
(2) write new projection. Projections provide a coarse granularity for maintaining
consistency between clients, and also for isolating log position ranges that need to be
recovered from ones that are still service-able.

The main performance bottleneck is in finding the tail position of the log, which is
improved with the use of a dedicated sequencer, which does not solve contention problems
but optimizes for the common case.

Performance seems relatively good, though there is no baseline against which to understand
the performance. There also does not seem to be an evaluation that significantly exercises
write contention, though reconfiguration appears to be plenty efficient to me. Reconfiguration
can happen frequently and so it needs to be as efficient as possible, and with as many as
32 flash devices sealing latency is no more than 6 ms (most of the time) and total latency is
less than 40. This also appears to translate to ~3 second delay in throughput, but overall
throughput does not need to ramp back up when a reconfiguration occurs. That being said,
the provided evaluation for state machine replication may look good, but I am not convinced
that this is something that databases would be interested in using.

#### Contribution

It appears to be very early work of implementing a distributed, strongly consistent primitive
(log) on top of clustered flash devices.

#### Comments and Questions

1. The use of reconfiguration to handle adding a new flash device to replace a failed flash device
seemed very interesting and smart. I feel that the overall design of projections is similar to
virtual memory, and so I wonder if a similar mechanism was first proposed for shared memory
systems that use virtual memory to span multiple memory units.

2. I don't think databases would be too excited to use CORFU as a log primitive, though I feel
that the dedicated network sequencer would be a useful component to re-use. I have read Noah's
work on zlog, but I don't think I was able to understand it as well. Now I want to re-read it
to see if part of the contribution of zlog and programmable storage is to enable access to
a network sequencer and finding the tail position of a log, rather than how data is written to
the log.
   
3. 
