# HP AutoRAID Hierarchical Storage System

> What is the problem the authors are trying to solve?

RAID configuration is a black art and difficult to adapt to a variety of
workloads and changes to the usage over time.

> What other approaches or solutions existed at the time that this
> work was done? What was wrong with the other approaches or solutions?

Other approaches did tiering between HDDs and tape, but not multiple tiers
on only HDDs. Other solutions also have drawbacks in using variable-size
records instead of fixed-size blocks, or didn't accommodate the use of
fixed-size blocks *and* multiple storage levels.

> What is the authors' approach or solution?

The authors' approach is a two tiered storage system, where one tier
is mirrored and the other tier is striping with parity. By migrating
cold data to the mirrored tier, and leaving hot data in the striped
tier, the proposed storage system is able to provide performance for
data being frequently accessed, and reliability for data that is
accessed infrequently.

> Why is it better than the other approaches or solutions?

The main aspects that makes this work better than other approaches is
the combination of targeting RAID arrays, targeting fast medium for
both tiers (instead of archival mediums such as tape), and the tiering
of both metadata (including parity) and data (cold and hot).

> How does it perform?

It seems that IOs per second performed as expected, where RAID needs
4 IOs for RAID 5, AutoRAID needs 2 IOs for RAID 1 (mirrored), and JBOD
needs a single write. However, for read performance AutoRAID does very
well, even with JBOD. The authors describe this as a benefit of mirrored
storage to compensate for controller overhead. RAID seems to do unexplainably
poor, which the authors attribute to configuration black arts and the
difficulty in configuring for a variety of workloads.

> Why is this work important?

This work seems important enough, but perhaps isn't revolutionary.
It seems to have been a major step toward tiered storage within a single
class (not considering archival storage as a tier), but perhaps it only does
this in the context of RAID arrays. This is still a big deal for storage
systems, though it is hard to imagine how important the RAID context was
for this time.

> 3+ comments/questions

1. I'm still not sure how mirrored storage *improves* performance and hides
   controller overhead. My best guess is that it has to do with being able to
   request data from one disk, and requesting different data from the other disk,
   and just that when one disk is being used, the other one is always available
   to service *any* request, rather than some requests being *required* to go
   to a specific disk.

2. Without having done any searching myself, I wonder how long it was before
   a research group combined the work on tickerTAIP with AutoRAID. If AutoRAID
   is doing this tiering, it would be really cool to allow for distribution of the
   RAID controller, especially since it's entirely in software, to see if
   scalability improves further.
   
3. I wonder if this work is a precursor to tiering between SSDs and HDDs as well,
   or if groups that first did that perhaps did not know about this particular
   system.
