# Reading Summary 2019-04-23

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Chord: A Scalable Peer-to-peer Internet Lookup Service for Internet Applications

#### Relevant Readings


#### Problem Statement

The authors are trying to provide a platform on which applications can reliably locate nodes
in a distributed system for a given key, even in the presence of nodes dynamically joining
and leaving the system. The authors want the mapping of keys to nodes to be stable, with minimal
balancing or data shuffling as nodes join and leave.

#### Related Work



#### Proposed Solution

The authors propose an approach that uses consistent hashing to stably map keys to nodes, which
is proposed as a substrate for distributed applications. For performance, the authors propose
finger tables to skip intermediate successor nodes that are known to not contain the desirable data.

The system performs well for locating nodes--log(n) where n is the number of nodes--and with the
use of finger tables is relatively efficient in the amount of memory necessary to improve performance.
However, there is a known issue that the stabilization algorithm is not always correct, because it
is done in two atomic phases.

#### Contribution

This work is important because it brings in the use of consistent hashing to provide a platform that
is incredibly useful for large distributed systems and is useful in various systems today (even if they
don't actually use chord).

#### Comments and Questions

1. When Peter Alvaro mentioned that chord's stabilization algorithm is not correct, it has made me wonder
if there is any way for chord to atomically track successors in a way to make it correct. The problem is
that nodes can join in such a way that between updating the successor of a node and updating the successor
of the successor, the nodes added may fail and then it's possible to have disjoint rings. I suspect that
this framing of the problem requires consensus which can be reliable most of the time especially today, but
perhaps stabilization is just as hard as consensus?

2. I keep thinking that with Ivy it would be possible to partition data in a way that only certain clients
handle certain data. If this is done, it would be interesting to use chord to maintain which client clusters
handle which files or file blocks in a way that Ivy clients can join and leave the system dynamically, and chord
can remap keys to new clients that manage those keys. This enables Ivy clients to read a few number of client
logs for performance, but also enables Ivy in the use case it is best for--systems where clients shouldn't be
dependent on other clients.
   
3. 

<!-- resources -->
