# Paper Review: NoDB: Efficient Query Execution on Raw Data Files

#### What's new
* The use of raw data files from the file system for queries
    * Previous work is able to process data from external files, but there is minimal optimization available
* The use of index structures such as positional maps.

#### Thoughts/Comments
1. After reading this paper, I feel that in-situ querying is only useful when data is read around the same amount of times as it is written, or for files that are mostly append only when updated. I had hoped that the approach taken was a little bit more on the side of how to transform or load data from external files so that users don't have to do both write data files and load into a database. I think that's where the real win is with in-situ data processing, because it means that users can load data into a system using the path of least resistance while a data management system can lazily "absorb" data in a reasonably good way.

2. The index structures used seem very key, and it appears that the approach hinges on minimizing duplicate work when reading the data as possible, which makes sense to me. In this sense, I think it'd be interesting to consider optimizations for common data types such as ints. Such as, when the data is scanned, some transformations are done so that not only is the position readily available as in position maps, but the data can be loaded fast. I think a binary format of some file contents could be maintained, and a hash could be used to update the binary data if the source data has changed. Then, the data access path for the same source can be that much faster, possibly with known, desired positions.
