# Paper Review: Eliminating unscalable communication in transaction processing

## Review

#### What's new
* Categorization of communication into 3 types:
  1. unbounded
  2. fixed
  3. cooperative
* A set of techniques (A "framework") for addressing sources of unbounded communication

#### Summary
This paper makes the argument that shared-nothing data management architectures are limited in their capability to intelligently re-use work between threads and machines. In comparison, a shared-everything data management architecture can achieve better utilization of shared-memory hardware, which is the most common type of modern, scalable hardware. With this assertion, the authors describe 3 types of communication in a data management system, and then provides a set of techniques to reduce or eliminate the 1 type of communication that is limiting--unbounded communication.

#### Thoughts/Comments
1. Consolidation as an approach to reducing or eliminating unbounded communication seems really relevant to declarative programmable storage. It would be ideal to generalize this concept in a way that a given query can specify accesses or computations that can be consolidated. It would be even better to be able to identify consolidatable data accesses automatically, though that seems like it would be difficult unless some actionable information of the hardware topology is available. Especially with the reference to LSNs in the paper, I wonder how Noah's implementation of corfu compares to this paper's description of why an LSN need not be de-coupled from data movement.

2. I think I don't understand how DORA achieves more efficient communication when it necessarily splits computation? It seems like it logically divides computation on data in order to improve cache utilization and data access patterns, but because a transaction flow graph necessarily will require computations in a transaction to pass from thread-to-thread, it seems like that would inherently cause a lot of cache invalidation in a map-reduce type of framework. Perhaps DORA only works well with specific kinds of data processing approaches where caching strategies and intermediate computations in the transaction flow graph can work cooperatively.
