# Paper Review: The MemSQL Query Optimizer: A modern optimizer for real-time analytics in a distributed database

## Review

#### What's new
* A query optimizer that is distribution-aware to improve:
    * choosing join plans
    * applying query rewrites
    * appropriately costing plans
* Call the enumerator from within the query rewriter
* New distribution aware heuristics for pruning operator order search space
* Analysis of the join graph to identify, and optimize for, bushy joins (a join graph where at least one internal node does not have a leaf as a child).

#### Summary
The MemSQL query optimizer has 3 steps for query optimization: the rewriter, enumerator, and planner. The primary step of query optimization that benefits from awareness of the distribution model is the enumerator. While each step can benefit, the enumerator handles the physical optimization, whereas the rewriter handles the logical optimization. In order for the rewriter to compare possible rewrites, it calls the enumerator. The rewriter then is able to rewrite the query into more favorable operator trees that are bushy, push-down predicates, etc.

#### Thoughts/Comments
1. I like this paper a lot due to the detail of the query optimizer implementation. The discussion about bushy rewrites, distributed costing for the enumerator, and all of the examples seem really nice to me.

2. It is mentioned that the only inter-node communication is from the leaf nodes to the aggregator nodes. I feel as if this is either a mistake, or incredibly non-intuitive. I would think that between aggregator nodes would also have inter-node communication in order to maximize parallelization for multiple costly joins, but perhaps this means that all aggregation happens on a single machine, because throughput of data processing is dominated by throughput of data movement  (processing is so much faster, that doing all aggregation on a single node is less expensive)?
