# Paper Review: Cicada: Dependably Fast Multi-Core In-Memory Transactions

## Review

#### What's new
* The use of *contention regulation* which can add increasingly large delays
  between retries in order to reduce global contention. The algorithm uses
  *hill climbing* to increase or decrease delays.
* The use of per-thread clocks to reduce contention of timestamp allocation.
  This approach is inspired by causal consistency and logical clocks.
* "Rapid Garbage Collection," which just means garbage collection occurs very
  frequently in order to scale with the number of transactions per second.
    * Note that the garbage collection algorithm is optimized for spatial
      locality and cache friendliness

#### Summary
The authors describe their database design, Cicada, which uses MVCC,
thread-local pseudo-logical clocks (based on physical time but not strictly
limited to physical time), and many cache-friendly optimizations for various
algorithms. The authors optimize for cache sizes, and storage sizes to achieve
high performance. Then, there are some optimizations or tweaks to common
algorithms in order to limit the weaknesses such as contention of timestamp
allocation.


#### Thoughts/Comments
1. I think some of the approaches in this paper are brilliant. I really like
   that clock skew is mitigated by thread-based checks of a remote clock, and
   on wraparounds the *version* is incremented in order to piggyback as much
   semantics into the same physical space as possible.

2. For various algorithms such as rapid garbage collection and one-sided
   synchronization, the authors mention the intervals at which a leader thread
   takes actions, and there are a few graphs (Figure 9 and Figure 10) that show
   how they chose some of these parameters. I would like to see more evaluation
   that includes all of these parameters together, as I think that is something
   that is almost not mentioned at all.
