# Paper Review: Predicting Multiple Metrics for Queries: Better Decisions Enabled by Machine Learning

## Review

#### What's new
* Actual performance metrics are predicted (records accessed/processed, bytes communicated, etc.) instead of abstract representations
* Multiple metrics are predicted (mentioned above) compared to single metric prediction of previous methods (which seem to mostly be based on a SQL progress indicator?)
* Only information before query execution is used in training and prediction, compared to previous methods which need runtime information for training as well
* The use of machine learning for predicting query performance wholistically as a blackbox for workload management instead of for the query optimizer or for triaging queries.

#### Summary
This paper suggests using vendor data for training machine learning models which can then be used in customer deployments. This approach should have a beneficial impact on vendor sales, but also can be used for managing customer workloads. The approach used and the claimed goals make the work from this paper seem useful at a high level. Related work mentioned by this paper all seem to target knowing the current progress of a running query or analyzing parts of a query in order to optimize across possible query plans. This paper explores the use of 5 different machine learning approaches and seems to achieve good performance.


#### Thoughts/Comments
1. I definitely feel as though the related work does not do a useful enough comparison. It's nice that the approaches mentioned are described as solving a different problem, but then that makes me wonder if this work is really the first in its particular niche. And, if it is the first, then what would previous approaches look like on the same features? Sometimes I think approaches not designed for the same features can sometimes still do surprisingly well, so I would be curious to know just how bad, or not badly, previous approaches would perform over similar data.

2. I think the experimental setup section needed to be much more detailed in terms of describing the test datasets. Even if a query is short or long, different data sets have very different access patterns. Even beyond the access patterns, there is little mention of what the variance of query or dataset characteristics actually are. As such, I don't put much faith in the evaluation results.
