# Reading Summary 2019-04-24 (IN PROGRESS)

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Towards a Cloud Computing Research Agenda

#### Relevant Readings


#### Overall Evaluation

I very much like the overall message of this paper, even though the "traditional" directions of the research
community seem clearly off-track. Of course, this reminds me of the database research community which focused
on sensor networks far too early and missed out on important industry trends.

The paper begins with a definition of cloud computing that seems adequate, but I believe is too operational
in definition, and not particularly principled. Below is a diagram of my own making that will be used as a
reference for describing the given definition of cloud computing.

First, I will use the terms "core" and "surface" to distinguish the definitions of cloud computing from an
_outside perspective_ and from an _inside perspective_. The ascii cloud art comes from [some ascii art
website][ascii-cloud], which I annotated.


                      Surface
                      .-~~~-.
              .- ~ ~-(       )_ _
            /                     ~ -.
    Surface| <------>  Core  <------>  \ Surface
            \       (tHe cLOuD)       .'
              ~- . _____________ . -~
                      Surface


Second, I provide a diagram that collapses the above idea into a 2-dimensional, layered layout:

           
                                      +---------+                +-------------+
    ##############   External         |         | Internal       |             |
    # Client     #   Communication    | Surface | Communication  |  Core       |
    # (outskirt) #   <------------>   | (edge)  | <------------> |  (central)  |
    ##############                    |         |                |             |
                                      +---------+                +-------------+

The cloud computing definition is given in 4 parts:

1. The *first part* describes what a cloud looks like from a client machine, cited from wikipedia.
2. The *second part* describes standards, or typical approaches, that developers expect of the
   external communication (how the client talks to some cloud servers at the edge).
3. The *third part* describes how the surface and core servers of the cloud are typically
   architected--how is system state managed (configuration), how are client data managed (storage
   systems and databases), how are the servers managed (hardware/virtual platform provisioning),
   and what is the communication substrate (the networking infrastructure).
4. The *fourth part* describes architecture and logic, provided by the core servers and infrastructure,
   for _long term maintainability_--how are tasks scheduled, how is storage managed (archival, etc.).
   
At first, the above definition seemed important, but reading the rest of the paper proved more interesting
as it primarily discusses the difference in values between the industry and research communities and then
discusses how the research community could pivot to more closely align with industry.


#### Strong Points

1. The paper is really well written to be easily read. This is not a research paper and it can be easy
   to poorly balance technical detail and a good description of the big picture. This paper goes into
   appropriate amounts of detail to understand exactly what differentiates industry values and research
   values, and what about the industry values holds research interest.

2. I think the running examples in the paper were very valuable for illustrating the authors' points.
   Especially, the details regarding Chubby.

3.

#### Weak Points

1. I did not like the overall message that the research community's goals should align with industry's
   and the other direction is less important. I do understand that as capitalist elites erode the common
   good and de-value overall research, the balance of funding sources tilt more towards corporations
   rather than the government or public, but I think there should have been a bit more discussed about
   how research directions should have influenced industry interests. Or how a greater effort could be made
   to connect with general users and improve the interactions and experience between application developers
   from the client perspective and the surface or core servers of cloud systems.

2. I think the mention of there being "no obvious value to 'transparent online migration'" sounds fairly
   inaccurate. Contrary to what large companies may think, some systems have users that don't want to be
   slowed down by technical issues that may accompany reboots, etc. For these systems, and for scenarios
   such as planned maintenance, transparent online migration could be very useful.

3. 
  
#### Questions Raised

1. I cannot fathom why, after the FLP impossibility, the research community would continue to pound away
   at consensus protocols. I thought it would be natural to transition into minimizing consistency requirements
   after the FLP impossibility was understood. But I suppose I'm also very biased, as I have already read lots
   of work on various consistency protocols.

2. If distributed systems research started at Bell Labs and other companies that were very influential before
   Microsoft and Google had built large distributed systems, how did the research community drift so far
   from the industry community? Is there still a distributed systems community gathering that spans both
   industry and research?

3.

#### Research Connections

<!-- resources -->
[ascii-cloud]: https://www.asciiart.eu/nature/clouds
