# Reading Summary 2019.05.15

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Sinfonia: a new paradigm for building scalable distributed systems

#### Overall Evaluation

I really like this paper for the idea of minitransactions and
the approach to distinguishing between application nodes and
memory nodes. By using semantics of a transaction to be able
to execute final operations concurrently the authors show that
it is possible to reduce the number of network round-trips. And
the shift _from_ bringing data to application nodes _to_ bringing
logic to memory (or storage) nodes. The idea of having memory
nodes vs application nodes seems similar in spirit to mapreduce,
though I think that Sinfonia offers more flexibility.

I also thought it was funny that "possible applications for
MapReduce include distributed grep, sort and computing inverted
indexes."

#### Strong Points

1. The discussion of the redo log managed by participants and
how recovery is handled for coordinators is quite interesting
and seemed fairly novel to me.

2. I think it is fairly interesting how minitransactions grab
locks in the first phase if all is well, and how optimistic this
seems to allow the minitransaction protocol to be. Locks only
need to be held for 1 full round trip, and because they are at
a high resolution, the likelihood of lock conflicts seems low.

3. The group communication service seems to highlight an elegant
use case for Sinfonia and the way in which the authors were able
to de-couple dependencies as much as possible.

#### Weak Points

1. I think the use of a recovery coordinator seems brittle but
also does not seem to adequately handle coordination failure on
it's own. I feel like there are a lot of details here that are
relevant but were left out.
  
#### Questions Raised

1. I wonder if minitransactions provide a good abstraction for
managing NVRAM, specifically, by viewing NVRAM devices as memory
nodes themselves. My initial thought is that in Sinfonia, reliability
of memory nodes are important because that is where most state is
maintained. And, since NVRAM maintains state even in crashes,
perhaps it can be physically co-located with an application node
and essentially serve as transactional memory (or at least, my
understanding of it).

2. It is not clear to me that Sinfonia provides distributed
transactions, and so I wonder if more complex transactions must
be expressed as a chain of minitransactions and how that affects
the type of consistency and atomicity guarantees Sinfonia is able
to provide.

#### Research Connections

I am interested in trying to figure out ways of getting a storage
system to help an application with incremental computation over
data. I wonder if the use of minitransactions can be an efficient
way to propagate computations without holding locks for too long
and it seems to be an approach that could be extended to Ceph or
a similar programmable storage system fairly easily.
