# Reading Summary 2019-04-15

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Impossibility of Distributed Consensus with One Faulty Process

> What problem does the paper solve? Is it important?

The paper addresses an aspect of distributed systems that many implementers fall into
the trap of attempting--consensus in a distributed system. Unfortunately, the solution
is that there is no solution. In any distributed system where a process may fail (partial
failure), consensus is impossible regardless of the algorithm.

This solution is very important. While many practictioners may informally give up the
search for a correct distributed consensus algorithm, this solution shows that no one
should even make an attempt. Other than saving many developers a lot of time, it shows
a limit to one aspect of distributed systems.

> How does it solve the problem?

This paper takes a theoretical approach--which is necessary to prove the impossibility
theorem they set out to prove. Specifically, they define a model and then show that in this
model there are three lemmas which can be used to prove that distributed consensus is
impossible:  (1) If two sequences of operations are disjoint, then they can be applied in
any order to obtain the same end state; (2) The initial state of any distributed system
can agree on any one of all possible decision values; (3) Given possible states and a
particular event, the event can always be applied or observed at the end of a sequence of
operations and from a bivalent state (any 2 of 2 possible values can be decided on) the
next state after any such event would also be bivalent. The summary of the main theorem
which uses the above 3 lemmas is: for a run of a consensus algorithm to be correct, we
need to reach a state from which a single possible value must be decided by every node;
but there is always an event that can occur that maintains every resulting state as an
ambiguous state (any decision is possible).

> What alternate solutions exist? Are they adequately discussed?

No alternate solutions appear to be discussed in the paper. Many of the references are
from the same authors (or at least Nancy Lynch), but there appear to be at least 2
references that provide the same model and investigate the exact same lemmas and similar
theorems: (1) _Asynchronous Byzantine Consensus_ and (2) _Resilient Consensus Protocols_.

I'm not sure what the relation is between these papers. I suspect it will take quite a
bit of simmering to be able to tease out many of the distinguishing aspects of these
previous papers from the current paper.
  
> How does this work relate to other research?

This work is very related to any distributed systems work in one of two ways: either why
a distributed system does not attempt to rely on a consensus protocol for a core decision,
or why a distributed system uses heuristics to achieve consensus.

> What specific research questions does the paper raise for you?

I think this paper itself doesn't raise questions for me, but indirectly raises the question
of: what the hell do I do when I need a distributed system to make a decision globally?
I suppose the best answer is that I need to either determine a clear bound and heuristically
do my best to stick to it, or I avoid global decisions at all cost. If a correct, distributed
consensus is impossible, then there is no reason for important decisions to be made by multiple
nodes. Then, anything that does not require every node to agree on a decision can be
distributed.
