# Reading Summary 2019.05.22

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Noria: dynamic, partially-stateful data-flow for high-performance web applications

#### Overall Evaluation

Noria is a system that manages data-flow programs that have SQL-like semantics and accommodate
partial results. These properties are core to Noria and imply other properties that distinguish
Noria from other data-flow systems. Because the data-flow graph is acyclic, it does not support
fixedpoint semantics like Naiad does. I think this is due to the SQL-like semantics, which do
not express recursion. Partial results allow for many interesting properties, such as: the ability
to dynamically add new internal and external views (without taking the data-flow program offline) and
the ability to evict stale values for space (garbage collection) or compute results on incomplete
data.

The ability to compute on incomplete data is especially interesting because it means that
if upstream (ancestor, or source) views or tables are distributed across a network, then
there is an opportunity to provide results as they come in, thus providing eventual consistency
guarantees instead of strong consistency guarantees. For the type of applications that Noria
targets, this is functionally acceptable and preferable for performance. This also enables the
possibility of efficiently backfilling data to recompute over, assuming associated downstream
records have not been evicted or garbage collected.

I really like the approach and the above properties provided and I think there are several directions
for future related research.

#### Strong Points

1. The use of partial state to allow: garbage collection, value eviction, and eventual consistency
seems really great to me.

2. Although I think the comparison to Naiad is a bit misleading, I like that some comparison was
made and I think that the similar performance up to 6 nodes is a good sanity test of the Noria
implementation.


#### Weak Points

1. I feel that some of the understatements in the paper are detrimental to the reader. Specifically,
I think the point that Noria exposes a SQL interface understates the types of workloads that it
targets compared to Naiad. I think many experienced application developers will understand whether
a SQL interface fits their requirements, but I suspect that the evaluation compared to Naiad does
not seem honest enough about what the trade-offs are between the two systems.

2. It seemed to me that upqueries are a solution to the presence of incomplete data, but I don't see
them as being much different from the cache invalidation scheme in the sense that they will reduce
performance on the read path. Further, one of the mentioned benefits of Noria is that it doesn't
have to restart the data-flow program to add new views. I would like to see evaluation that explores
these 2 points, even if briefly.

3. I feel like not having an implementation of multi-column joins is significant unless writes are
de-normalized. I didn't see much discussion of this and the impact for web applications. I think
an extra paragraph or so would be nice.

#### Questions Raised


#### Research Connections

