# Reading Summary 2019.05.20

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## A comprehensive study of Convergent and Commutative Replicated Data Types

#### Overall Evaluation

This paper details shared data types, which receive and process updates at
one replica and then update state at other replicas, using "simple" formal
conditions that guarantee eventual consistency. The authors call these data
types convergent replicated data types, or commutative replicated data types.
The convergent and commutative terms refer to how updates of state converge
or how update operations commute.

Interestingly, state replication is referred to as passive replication and
entails the update of other replicas after an update is applied at a source
replica. This requires that an update operation be applied in its entirety
at the source replica so that the "content" or payload be propagated to
other replicas to merge state. Operation replication is then referred to as
active replication and is both: more constrained and capable of asynchronous
updates. Although pre-conditions must be checked at the source replica, the
actual update can be propagated concurrently with application at the source
replica, and the propagation need only contain the operation and no state.
The rest of the paper does quite well in discussing various principles and
approaches for achieving both types of replication  and does so using a few
examples.

#### Strong Points

1. I like that the strength of the communication channel is mentioned as part
of the capability of CvRDTs and CmRDTs, which is that state-based replication
(CvRDTs) can be used with weaker channels which may deliver many times, compared
to operation-based replication (CmRDTs) which require reliable delivery.

2. The detail of discussion for various examples is quite good. I appreciate
the ramp up from G-counters to PN-counters and the discussion of why the state-based
replication for these require vector clocks and the clear description of why an
oversimplified state payload (just an integer for a counter) doesn't capture
enough state for correctness. This can easily be extended by the reader to
see how more complex data types can end up requiring a lot of state.

3.

#### Weak Points

1. "Both these constructs are CRDTs because they combine two CRDTs..." I do
believe there is no discussion of whether or not composing CRDTs can yield
a CRDT. The interesting thing here is that a CRDT that is composed of other
CRDTs must have correct composition semantics, which I feel is referenced
in passing but deserving of discussion.

2. I think that garbage collection is deserving of a larger discussion because
it is mentioned as a reason why CvRDTs become inefficient over time. As discussed,
it leaves the reader to derive garbage collection for any CRDT from the
insight that for 2P-Sets there is a particular state which is trivial to
garbage collect: when you have removed an element, and thus it can no longer
be added or removed. I am okay with leaving details to other papers, but I think
discussion of how GC requirements may change for CRDTs if composed or if
CvRDTs are used instead of CmRDTs, etc., would be a great addition.

3.
  
#### Questions Raised

1. Does _reliable_ communication imply once-delivery as well? I had assumed
it only meant that messages are eventually delivered, but in order for CmRDTs
to converge, I get the impression that reliable communication is once-delivery.

#### Research Connections

