# Reading Summary 2019-04-03

&middot; by Aldrin Montana

## Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System

> What problem does the paper solve? Is is important?

The paper addresses the problem of event ordering in a distributed system.
Primarily, this is done by answering the question of whether an event A
_happened before_ an event B, which allows us to order pairs of events.
This is a very important question for applications that provide concurrent
access to shared, mutable state by distributed processes.

> How does it solve the problem?

The question of which events happen before other events is solved by the definition
of a particular relation of interest, _happens before_. This relation captures 3
properties: (1) all events in a process are in order of _happens before_ from
earliest event to latest event, (2) for a given communication message, the sending
process _happens before_ the receiving process, (3) _happens before_ is transitive.
  
> What alternative approaches are there? Are they adequately discussed in the reading?
  
An alternative approach, discussed in the paper, is the use of physical/real clocks
because physical time is global to all devices/agents. Although, physical clocks that
adequately capture real time are incredibly *difficult* to implement and the smallest
skews can throw off synchronization between nodes/agents. I think as far as when this
paper was published, there were almost no other known alternatives.
  
> How does this work relate to other research, whether covered in this course or not?

In general, this work is towards understanding dependencies between multiple
processes. In the distributed systems case, processes are on different machines and
dependencies (if A _happens before_ B, then B depends on A) may indicate points where
failures may cascade or halt the system. I think this relation can be extended to
single-node parallelism where dependencies may indicate where a task needs to be
restarted after a failure, or branches of a computation that can be scheduled in
parallel, or other scheduling/resilience scenarios. It may also be relevant for
recovery of data management systems, where determining dependencies is necessary
for knowing what other options may need to be rolled back (assuming steals and
logical commits instead of physical commits).

> What specific research questions, if any, does the paper raise for you?

Having read this paper before, I still think about the trade-offs of using logical
clocks in lamport style, compared to logical vector clocks. When is the dense
representation of vector clocks favorable compared to lamport clocks given the memory
overhead and processing overhead for elastic systems or large-scale distributed
systems.

<!--
Relevant Resources:
* [Silo DBMS][paper-silo]
* [CAP Theorem][talk-brewer-cap] was mentioned in 2000
-->


<!-- Links -->
[paper-silo]: https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2522713
[talk-brewer-cap]: http://pld.cs.luc.edu/courses/353/spr11/notes/brewer_keynote.pdf
